README.md, before:

# Shopping Cart
This is a sample application to demonstrate shopping cart data model.


## Prerequisites

- [x] JDK 8 or later 
- [x] Apache Maven 3.5 or later 
- [x] git client

## Class diagram

### rules
* A customer can have zero or one shopping carts.
* A customer can add one or more of each different products to each shopping cart.
* Every product must have a title, name, price and tax.
* A shopping cart has a total amount, total VAT and shipment costs.

![Alt text](./images/class_diagram.svg)

### design decisions

* A customer should be linked to a user account
* There should be an entity to the link between products and shopping cart
* Couples can be applied to a shopping cart and couple should have a strategy to calculate it
* Shopping cart items can store in the session until the user decides to submit it

## how to run this application

1. clone this repository using git command or alternatively , you may be able to download ZIP archive and extract it

```bash
git clone https://github.com/melanj/shopping-cart.git
```

2. run the application using maven command line
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```


## how to see coverage

Tests can be run using following maven command and test reports are available at 'target/site/jacoco/index.html'.

```bash
mvn clean test jacoco:report
```
main scenarios evaluated in following test cases. 
```java
ShoppingApplicationTests#testPurchaseSingleItemAndGetTotal
ShoppingApplicationTests#testPurchaseMultipleItemsAndGetTotal
```

## Test using curl

REST Api can be tested directly using curl command, jq command is use for prettify the output

```bash
# list products, pageable parameters are supported in this API, default size is 20
curl -c ./user1_cookie.txt -u user1:user1Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/products' 2>/dev/null | jq

# the first customer add one product to his shopping cart.
curl -c ./user1_cookie.txt -u user1:user1Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
curl -b ./user1_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 2,\"product\": {\"id\": 97}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user1_cookie.txt 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq


# the second customer add two different products, with different quantities to his shopping cart.
curl -c ./user2_cookie.txt -u user2:user2Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 5,\"product\": {\"id\": 14}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 6,\"product\": {\"id\": 28}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
```

Commit message:

Added Swagger and docker image build support

README.md, after:

# Shopping Cart
This is a sample application to demonstrate shopping cart data model.


## Prerequisites

- [x] JDK 8 or later 
- [x] Apache Maven 3.5 or later 
- [x] git client

## Class diagram

### rules
* A customer can have zero or one shopping carts.
* A customer can add one or more of each different products to each shopping cart.
* Every product must have a title, name, price and tax.
* A shopping cart has a total amount, total VAT and shipment costs.

![Alt text](./images/class_diagram.svg)

### design decisions

* A customer should be linked to a user account
* There should be an entity to the link between products and shopping cart
* Couples can be applied to a shopping cart and couple should have a strategy to calculate it
* Shopping cart items can store in the session until the user decides to submit it

## how to run this application

1. clone this repository using git command or alternatively , you may be able to download ZIP archive and extract it

```bash
git clone https://github.com/melanj/shopping-cart.git
```

2. run the application using maven command line
```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```

or build a docker image and run it.
```bash
spring-boot:build-image
```

run it.
```bash
docker run -it -p8080:8080 --name shopping-cart  shopping:0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
```

Swagger API specifications can be accessible via a browser using http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html

## how to see coverage

Tests can be run using following maven command and test reports are available at 'target/site/jacoco/index.html'.

```bash
mvn clean test jacoco:report
```
main scenarios evaluated in following test cases. 
```java
ShoppingApplicationTests#testPurchaseSingleItemAndGetTotal
ShoppingApplicationTests#testPurchaseMultipleItemsAndGetTotal
```

## Test using curl

REST Api can be tested directly using curl command, jq command is use for prettify the output

```bash
# list products, pageable parameters are supported in this API, default size is 20
curl -c ./user1_cookie.txt -u user1:user1Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/products' 2>/dev/null | jq

# the first customer add one product to his shopping cart.
curl -c ./user1_cookie.txt -u user1:user1Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
curl -b ./user1_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 2,\"product\": {\"id\": 97}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user1_cookie.txt 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq


# the second customer add two different products, with different quantities to his shopping cart.
curl -c ./user2_cookie.txt -u user2:user2Pass  'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 5,\"product\": {\"id\": 14}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "{\"quantity\": 6,\"product\": {\"id\": 28}}" 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart/items' -v
curl -b ./user2_cookie.txt 'http://localhost:8080/api/mycart' 2>/dev/null | jq
```
